this is a China only CPU called the rail
on our 530 500x and it's not a knockoff
it's actually an Andy a China only
release using the modern Zen 2
architecture and a sound translation of
Rison to Mandarin the box makes it clear
that we had to buy this online and it's
only available to the US via eBay or
retailers like Aliexpress Taobao or JD
the r5 3500 X is a 6 core 6 thread part
that runs a boost frequency of 4.1
gigahertz base of 3.6 gigahertz and is
unlocked for overclocking the 3600 for
comparison has a 4 point 2 gigahertz
maximum boost 100 megahertz higher but
still has the same cache base clock in
physical cores with the notable
difference that it does have SMT and 12
threats rather than these 6 and 6 setup
of the 3500 X today we're benchmarking
the r5 3500 X verses everything else on
the charts before that this video is
brought to you by the gigabyte x2 99 X
des ignore a high-end motherboard
thinking about x2 99 X des ignore a runs
Intel's X 299 chipset 4 h EDT CPUs but
this board stands out most for its
properly fend of erm heat sinks and
cooling solution and its focus on
networking with dual 10 Gigabit Ethernet
alongside Wi-Fi 6 802 2.11 ax support
learn more at the link in the
description below we already covered
most the differences in the intro there
but there's one more which is that AMD's
website also lists that the 3,500 X
includes a wraith aspire and it says
that the r5 3600 has a wraith stealth
and ours we did check the part number on
the cooler and it is and let's see it's
an and these seven one two zero zero
zero zero four six rev C which nobody
knows what any of these coolers are
called so if you try to look that number
up you'll find both spire and stealth
attributed to that specific part number
but anyway there's the part number for
you what really matters though is the
CPU itself and the obvious difference is
6 cores 6 threads instead of 6 and 12
hundred megahertz yeah that has some
play on performance especially once you
start looking at more heavily
multi-threaded applications where it
won't be maxed boost but it'll be
hopefully a higher boost for something
like blender
across all the cores you start seeing
the difference really materialize there
so the pricing is probably the the next
most important thing this is anywhere
from 120 bucks maybe a bit lower
sometimes to $200 depending on where you
go and if you get ripped off so we
needed it quickly which means we did pay
for expedited shipping all that stuff it
end up being a little over 200 after we
paid for the fast as possible shipping
from China and if you're willing to wait
maybe five weeks to get it from
Aliexpress or something or I think we
saw it on Taobao also for similar
pricing at time of filming it was listed
at 120 dollars USD which if you get it
with a cheaper shipping options maybe
isn't so bad that said you can also get
an r5 2600 these days or 2600 X even for
not-too-distant of a price from the 120
baseline of the 3500 X as it's listed
today so just obviously this thing is
probably not going to be worth it for
most buyers in the West but it's still
interesting to look at and who knows
maybe it'll be worth it as the price
moves around in the future there have
been a few theories about performance
where we've seen some speculation that
because of the lack of SMT there might
be an improvement of in performance
versus the 3600 because there's a
there's less like contention or
something going on in the course
realistically that's not that's not
happening this is technically slower it
does have a lower boost clock which will
matter and it's the same CPU it just has
half the threads and even in scenarios
where threads don't matter that much
you're still going to see on average
better performance out of a stock 3600
or at least equal and we'll look at
games like GTA 5 to eliminate thread
does even a consideration and go through
our benchmarks with with some mix of old
and new the only other reason you'd gain
some performance is from precision boost
- which is different from PB o PB -
would allow higher boosting if for
example on a 3600 you disable SMT one of
the things that you do is reduce the
heat density on the CPU you're going to
lower T die as a result and then improve
the clocks because stock performance out
of box PB - will boost the clocks higher
for every couple degrees lower that your
CPU is that would be another factor
consider anyway let's get into the
benchmarks will keep it pretty simple
today because frankly everyone wants a
break so we're gonna go through this as
efficiently as we can shadow of the Tomb
Raider with dx12 and 1080p will start us
off for games the and the r5 3,500 X
lands at 129 FPS average here which
places it about equal with the r7 2700 X
although with slightly lower lows and
the Intel i7 6700k is also close by as
for the a.m. the r5 3600 average
framerate runs at 138 fps and lows run
notably higher both the benefit of the
higher thread count afforded to a game
that actually cares about it and don't
forget about the 100 megahertz
difference in the frequencies they're
mostly the same but the 100 megahertz
boosts Delta does favour the 3600 and I
know that Tomb Raider is one of the
newer games that can leverage the
threads - if they're sufficiently fast
the 3600 holds a lead of 6.7% in this
game we were unable to get the 3500 XS
highly overclocked as some of our other
rise in 3,000 chips and ended up limited
at 4.2 gigahertz all core at one point
three eight volts
we tried up to one point four two four
four point three but it just wasn't
holding the 4.2 gigahertz all core OC
pushed to 136 FPS average again a four
point nine percent over the stock
performance frame times have also
improved on average pushing 285 FPS one
percent low from 78 originally the new
performance has it just behind the r5 at
3,600 stock CPU we have some launch day
results with the 3600 that has SMT off
which had it at 132 FPS average and with
similar loads the r5 3500 X stock CPU it
makes sense that performance would be
almost the same and serves as good
validation the 100 megahertz delta is an
hour remaining difference as the cache
and core counts are the same hitman 2 is
our next dx12 title we'll look at some
1440p results shortly at 1080p the r5
3500 X managed 107 FPS average which is
tied with the r5 3600 with SMT off the
r5 3600 under stock conditions managed
115 FPS average a lead over the 3500 x
stock by 7.9%
lows are mostly the same especially
since the older data the 3600 might get
a slight boost from modern BIOS updates
the average should remain almost exactly
the same but
can sometimes be bumped by single digits
overclocking 3600 didn't do much here
but overclocking the AMD r5 3500 X
pushed it to 109 FPS average which also
didn't do much here to get him about 2.4
percent it's not much to be had from an
OC in this title the 3600 is clearly the
better part if you could get the 3500 x4
really chief maybe it'd be worth it but
the loss of balance and more thread
bound applications and games is hard to
justify and at least in the Western
market you have a lot of better options
available
moving on to 1440p we're obviously bound
by the cpu is still so frame rate barely
changes things are stuck at 106 FPS
average as the bottleneck hasn't moved
for hitman to Assassin's Creed is one of
the games that typically shows a
meaningful difference with the thread
count changing the 3500 ax stock
performance had it at 106 FPS average
and 70 FPS 1% lows with an overclocked
improving to 110 FPS average the r5 3600
ran 7% faster now average framerate
although the lows weren't tremendously
affected as for the r5 2600 that's at 99
FPS average when overclocked to 4.2
gigahertz all core or 90 FPS average one
left stock the 3500 X is actually not a
terrible deal in this situation it just
depends on if you can get it for closer
to that 120 dollar mark Sims 6 gives us
a look at AI simulation through turn
time processing duration our 530 is 500
X finishes the close almost got 3600 but
no the r5 3500 X finishes the average
turn calculation 30 5.3 seconds which
has it marginally slower than the 35
second time of the a.m. the r5 3600 the
3500 X is not faster than the r5 3600
which is how it should be obviously
because the 3600 is 100 megahertz faster
minimally but the thread count is also
not useful here Civ has always favored
frequency over threads with only one or
two exceptions where the higher thread
counts help overclocking the 3500 X gets
it up to a 34 second turn completion
time and Civ well the r5 3600 at four
point three gigahertz the same as the
3600 xf 4.3 gigahertz which we listed
landed at thirty four point five seconds
these are with an error of each other
between the 3,500 X and the 3600 OC at 4
1 2018 is next giving us a dx11 look at
things this game runs high frame rate on
all of these CPUs but that means it
gives us a
really clean comparative hierarchy since
we're not capping out on the GPU at
1080p there are five 3,500 X ran at 261
FPS average with low is it similarly
spaced to the r5 3,600 the 3,600 held a
slightly higher average with a 2.4
percent lead establishing that the
higher thread count doesn't help much
but it's still in the lead from its 100
megahertz higher boost and to some
extent the threads can occasionally
alleviate the load not all 12 are needed
but going to eight can help in this
title the 3500 acts at 4.2 gigahertz
runs at 265 FPS average chefs behind the
3600 at 4.3 gigahertz and it's to Sony
one FPS average as for the SMT toggled
off result the 3600 climbs to 273 FPS
average as a result of its partly of its
reduced T die which means that higher
sustained boosting frequencies out of
precision boost to our house which is
explicitly different by the way from PBO
and should not be confused 1440p pulls
the average down from a slight GPU
ceiling that affects some of the scenes
in the benchmark but we're still at
about 227 FPS average for the 3500 X
under both stock and overclock settings
the 3600 stock CPU managed 229 FPS
average a slight lead with it - oh no
see also failing to help in a meaningful
way SMT off 3600 result ran 231 fps it
doesn't always help to disable SMT and
we certainly don't recommend cutting
your CPU and a half but sometimes it can
bump FPS it's just not worth it beyond
being an academic exercise
total war Warhammer two's campaign
benchmark is next which is 8 more CPU
bound benchmark out of the 2 included in
total war 2 the r5 3500 X ran at about
156 157 FPS average with the r5 3600 at
about 157 FPS average there's no
meaningful difference in this game but
this is also a game where disabling SMT
gives a big boost as shown by the are
five thirty six hundred thousand D off
at 165 FPS average if anything as
somebody is detrimental in total war
Warhammer - but that's also seen in the
HDD T CPUs that we don't have listed for
this review you can see some of that
behavior in our 3175 x revisit if you're
interested so 3,500 X overclocked gets
it to about 164 FPS average or a
reasonable boost in this title of about
4.2%
GTA 5 is a next
to the oldest game on our benchmark this
one is fun because it allows us to
better see scaling through the ages
particularly as Corinth read focus is
limited back down to the i5 era of four
core four thread CPUs from 2015 at 1080p
that a.m. the r5 3500 X ran at about 102
FPS average whereas the r5 3,600 ran at
104 FPS average the Delta is small and
imperceptible to a player but it's
measurable and repeatable the lows are
not meaningfully different between these
two results and are with an error for
GTA 5 1080 P we need to rerun our 3600
our C result for this game so it's not
listed here but the 3500 xoc gets it to
about 110 FPS average 111 maybe and
suffice to say the 3600 at a similar OC
should perform similarly because the
base ski has already show that behavior
well start some production benchmarks
next we typically include a lot of these
but we're going to keep this one shorter
than usual because it just it doesn't
matter not many people are buying this
chip and if they are it's not for
production and also we sort of want to
break from the cpu things so we have
five to seven minutes off for the
holiday but no more than that we're also
removing most of the h EDT super
high-end cpu results from these charts
like thread Ripper and the 3175 X
because they're just so far away in
pricing watch our 31 25 X revisit if you
want to see the h EDT performance adobe
premiere with our 1080p 60 show floor
convention shoot is up first and the r5
3500 x6 core cpu required 5.8 minutes to
finish this render as compared to the
a.m. the r5 3600 and it's 4.2
eight-minute completion time this is
where we start to see some of the real
gains a one-minute reduction is about
17% less time to render between these
results which becomes significant as
project size scales the threads do
actually help the am the r7 1700 at 3.9
gigahertz is a good example of this it's
comparatively slow and it's an old
generation of Zen but the extra four
threads help push it to about the same
performance as a modern r5 3600 the 3500
X just doesn't do well here when
compared to the 3600 our more intensive
4k 60 a roll and b-roll render has the
AMD r5 3500 acts at 19 minutes
completion time which allows the r5 3600
a noteworthy 25% render time reduction
these gains
with more intensive projects especially
those that draw upon the course more
heavily and it's clear that the
thirty-six hundred fourteen point two
minute render time becomes noticeable at
scale and at the current size lender is
that more threat intensive tasks than
premier so this should be easy to
predict overall with the Gianna
monkeyhead render blender has the AMD r5
3,500 X finishing in 39 point nine
minutes the same amount of time as the
four core eight thread i7 6700 K and the
r5 3600 meanwhile takes 38 percent less
time to render with its doubled thread
count the 100 megahertz frequency Delta
certainly helps but we're mostly able to
isolate that SMT unsurprisingly isn't
just a straight 2x increase in
tile-based renderer performance still
nearly a 40% time reduction is important
as a difference and it's a reason you
shouldn't spend the same amount of money
on a worse part if you didn't already
have enough of those reasons the GM logo
render had the 3500 acts at 46 minutes
compared to the r5 36 hundreds
performance on 30.2 8 minutes that's a
render time reduction of 34 percent the
3500 X stock CPU ends up about the same
as the 77 40 X which is a 7700 K and
it's not distant from a 9600 K let's
just limit the tests here Photoshop will
be our last one for this video and it
gives us more of a frequency dependent
look that said Photoshop has started to
show some utilization of threads in last
year it's just it's still been frequency
dominated as you can always see by
looking at the 9900 K results where a
5.1 gigahertz 9900 K and 9700 K perform
functionally the same the r5 3,500 X
scores 931 points in the aggregate
scoring of transforms warps filters
scales and other photoshop loads the
3600 scored 9:57 points which isn't
really much of an increase and there is
still that 100 megahertz Delta the two
are mostly the same on this tests given
that the threads don't really matter for
photoshop between these two CPUs
the r5 3500 X actually did surprise us a
little bit in its value because it can
be worth it versus the r5 2600 when the
3500 X is properly $120 and it's got $4
and 21 cents shipping of Aliexpress
which is what we saw at the time of
working on this review that's actually
pretty competitive we have definitely
seen it around 200 we paid closer to
that price with the expedited shipping
with getting
coughs all that but at 124 ish versus
$120 with r5 2600 the 3500 acts is
better
it's worse than blender due to the
thread deficit it's worse in premiere
sometimes but it's way better in gaming
that said you're buying a CPU from China
so that means longer wait times to get
it potentially poor or unusable warranty
experiences and really no ongoing
support so that does make us hesitate a
lot on recommending it it is a little
bit of an odd part because it's not
officially a US or a western part but
strictly in terms of performance if you
really can't afford the 3600 and you
can't afford to wait an eternity to get
the 3500 acts it's technically better in
gaming than a 2600 which is about the
same price there are other options too
of course Intel's got stuff out there as
well to consider but we're just looking
at this from a perspective of 2600 3,600
it's definitely worse than the 3600
especially if you get it at the same
price and it's better than 2600 probably
overall in gaming at least so the 3500 X
is interesting but probably not worth it
it sort of reminds us of the 1500 X and
the 1400 from Zen one which were also
not really an arguable buy it made a lot
more sense to buy an r5 1600 which at
the time wasn't that much more expensive
and the 1400 especially just really made
no sense but this is sort of reminiscent
of that 6 core 6 thread part being so
close to a 3600 just feels sort of bad
to buy and at 120 ish dollars it's not
terrible if you could get it locally and
maybe a little cheaper because the r5
2600 used or not used but new prices as
Andy tries to dump the stock it's it's
pretty competitive and affordable these
days so should you buy it well maybe if
you are in somewhere in Southeast Asia
and you can buy it relative to the
pricing of the other Andy products it
might be more worthwhile but in the West
we do have pretty good options compared
to this one the last major sort of
invisible pricing factor to consider is
the shipping because it probably won't
be free you might be able to get it the
subsidized version from out
Express but otherwise it does cost money
to ship her from China so that's the
3500 X kind of interesting but that's
it's more of an academic exercise really
it's not necessarily something we'd
recommend buying especially for people
who have access to the r5 2600 or if you
have the budget the 3600 absolutely do
not pay $200 for this though that's a
ripoff for sure cuz then you should just
be buying two 3600 and get it in two
days instead of five weeks that's it for
this one thanks for watching subscribe
for more go to store doc here in Texas
net that helps out directly and we'll
see you all next time
[Music]